# S3

- One of the main building blocks of AWS.
- Infinitely scalable storage.
- Use cases:
  - Backup and restore
  - Disaster recovery
  - Archive
  - Hybrid cloud storage
  - Application hosting
  - Media storage
  - Data lakes & big data analytics
  - Software delivery
  - Static website hosting

## Buckets

- A container for objects stored in S3.
- Must have a **globally unique** name.
- Defined at the region level.
- Created in a region.
- Naming
  - Lowercase letters, numbers, hyphens, and periods.
  - No underscores
  - No uppercase
  - No spaces
  - 3-63 characters long

## Objects

- Files stored in S3.
- key-value pairs.
  - key: name of the object
  - value: data
- Max size: 5TB
  - If larger than 5GB, use **multipart upload**.
- Metadata
- Tags
- Version ID

## Security

- User-based
  - IAM policies
- Resource-based
  - Bucket policies: bucket-wide rules from the S3 console.
  - Object access control lists (ACLs) - finer-grained
  - Bucket access control lists (ACLs) - less common
- An IAM principal can access an S3 object if:
  - The user IAM permissions allow it **OR** the resource policy allows it.
  - **AND** there are no explicit denies.
- Encryption

### S3 Bucket Policies

- JSON-based policies.
- Resources: buckets and objects.
- Effect: Allow or Deny.
- Actions: Set of API to allow or deny.
- Principal: Account or user to apply the policy to.

#### Example

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action": "s3:GetObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

## S3 Website Hosting

- S3 can host static websites.
- The bucket name must match the domain name.
  - <my-bucket>.s3-website-<region>.amazonaws.com
  - e.g., `http://my-bucket.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com`
